---
created: '2018-05-02T00:00:00.000Z'
author: Bradley Leatherwood <bradleat@inkibra.com>
eip: 1080
status: Draft
title: Recoverable Token
type: Standards Track
discussions-to: 'https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-1080-recoverabletoken-standard/364'
category: ERC
---

# eip-1080

## Simple Summary

A standard interface for tokens that support chargebacks, theft prevention, and lost & found resolutions.

## Abstract

The following standard allows for the implementation of a standard API for tokens extending ERC-20 or ERC-791. This standard provides basic functionality to recover stolen or lost accounts, as well as provide for the chargeback of tokens.

## Motivation

To mitigate the effects of reasonably provable token or asset loss or theft and to help resolve other conflicts. Ethereum's protocol should not be modified because of loss, theft, or conflicts, but it is possible to solve these problems in the protocol layer.

## Specification

## RecoverableToken

### Methods

#### claimLost

Reports the `lostAccount` address as being lost. MUST trigger the `AccountClaimedLost` event.

After the time configured in `getLostAccountRecoveryTimeInMinutes` the implementer MUST provide a mechanism for determining the correct owner of the tokens held and moving the tokens to a new account.

Account recoveries must trigger the `AccountRecovered` event.

```javascript
function claimLost(address lostAccount) returns (bool success)
```

#### cancelLostClaim

Reports the `msg.sender`'s account as being not being lost. MUST trigger the `AccountClaimedLostCanceled` event.

MUST fail if an account recovery process has already begun.

Otherwise, this method MUST stop a dispute from being started to recover funds.

```javascript
function claimLost() returns (bool success)
```

#### reportStolen

Reports the current address as being stolen. MUST trigger the `AccountFrozen` event. Successful calls MUST result in the `msg.sender`'s tokens being frozen.

The implementer MUST provide a mechanism for determining the correct owner of the tokens held and moving the tokens to a new account.

Account recoveries must trigger the `AccountRecovered` event.

```javascript
function reportStolen() returns (bool success)
```

#### chargeback

Requests a reversal of transfer on behalf of `msg.sender`.

The implementer MUST provide a mechanism for determining the correct owner of the tokens disputed and moving the tokens to the correct account.

MUST comply with sender's chargeback window as value configured by `setPendingTransferTimeInMinutes`.

```javascript
function chargeback(uint256 pendingTransferNumber) returns (bool success)
```

#### getPendingTransferTimeInMinutes

Get the time an account has to chargeback a transfer.

```javascript
function getPendingTransferTime(address account) view returns (uint256 minutes)
```

#### setPendingTransferTimeInMinutes

Sets the time `msg.sender`'s account has to chargeback a transfer.

MUST NOT change the time if the account has any pending transfers.

```javascript
function setPendingTransferTime(uint256 minutes) returns (bool success)
```

#### getLostAccountRecoveryTimeInMinutes

Get the time account has to wait before a lost account dispute can start.

```javascript
function getLostAccountRecoveryTimeInMinutes(address account) view returns (uint256 minutes)
```

#### setLostAccountRecoveryTimeInMinutes

Sets the time `msg.sender`'s account has to sit before a lost account dispute can start.

MUST NOT change the time if the account has open disputes.

```javascript
function setLostAccountRecoveryTimeInMinutes(uint256 minutes) returns (bool success)
```

### Events

#### AccountRecovered

The recovery of an account that was lost or stolen.

```javascript
event AccountClaimedLost(address indexed account, address indexed newAccount)
```

#### AccountClaimedLostCanceled

An account claimed as being lost.

```javascript
event AccountClaimedLost(address indexed account)
```

#### AccountClaimedLost

An account claimed as being lost.

```javascript
event AccountClaimedLost(address indexed account)
```

#### PendingTransfer

A record of a transfer pending.

```javascript
event PendingTransfer(address indexed from, address indexed to, uint256 value, uint256 pendingTransferNumber)
```

#### ChargebackRequested

A record of a chargeback being requested.

```javascript
event ChargebackRequested(address indexed from, address indexed to, uint256 value, uint256 pendingTransferNumber)
```

#### Chargeback

A record of a transfer being reversed.

```javascript
event Chargeback(address indexed from, address indexed to, uint256 value, uint256 indexed pendingTransferNumber)
```

#### AccountFrozen

A record of an account being frozen. MUST trigger when an account is frozen.

```javascript
event AccountFrozen(address indexed reported)
```

## Rationale

* A recoverable token standard can provide configurable saftey for users or contracts who desire this saftey.
* Implementations of this standard will give users the ability to select a dispute resolution process on an opt-in basis and benefit the community by decreasing the necessity of consideration of token recovery actions.

## Implementation

Pending.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

