---
created: '2018-06-01T00:00:00.000Z'
author: >-
  g. nicholas d’andrea (@gnidan), Piper Merriam (@pipermerriam), Nick Gheorghita
  (@njgheorghita), Danny Ryan (@djrtwo)
eip: 1123
status: Draft
title: Revised Ethereum Smart Contract Packaging Standard
type: Standards Track
discussions-to: 'https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/1123'
category: ERC
replaces: 190
---

# eip-1123

## Simple Summary

A data format describing a smart contract software package.

## Abstract

This EIP defines a data format for _package manifest_ documents, representing a package of one or more smart contracts, optionally including source code and any/all deployed instances across multiple networks. Package manifests are minified JSON objects, to be distributed via content addressable storage networks, such as IPFS.

This document presents a natural language description of a formal specification for version **2** of this format.

## Motivation

This standard aims to encourage the Ethereum development ecosystem towards software best practices around code reuse. By defining an open, community-driven package data format standard, this effort seeks to provide support for package management tools development by offering a general-purpose solution that has been designed with observed common practices in mind.

As version 2 of this specification, this standard seeks to address a number of areas of improvement found for the previous version \(defined in [EIP-190](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-190)\). This version:

* Generalizes storage URIs to represent any content addressable URI scheme, not only IPFS.
* Renames _release lockfile_ to _package manifest_.
* Adds support for languages other than Solidity by generalizing the compiler information format.
* Redefines link references to be more flexible, to represent arbitrary gaps in bytecode \(besides only addresses\), in a more straightforward way.
* Forces format strictness, requiring that package manifests contain no extraneous whitespace, and sort object keys in alphabetical order, to prevent hash mismatches.

 Specification ============= This document defines the specification for an EthPM package manifest. A package manifest provides metadata about a \[Package\]\(\#term-package\), and in most cases should provide sufficient information about the packaged contracts and its dependencies to do bytecode verification of its contracts. &gt; \*\*Note\*\* &gt; &gt; A \[hosted &gt; version\]\(https://ethpm.github.io/ethpm-spec\) of this &gt; specification is available via GitHub Pages. This EIP and the hosted &gt; HTML document were both autogenerated from the same documentation &gt; source. Guiding Principles ------------------ This specification makes the following assumptions about the document lifecycle. 1. Package manifests are intended to be generated programatically by package management software as part of the release process. 2. Package manifests will be consumed by package managers during tasks like installing package dependencies or building and deploying new releases. 3. Package manifests will typically \*\*not\*\* be stored alongside the source, but rather by package registries \*or\* referenced by package registries and stored in something akin to IPFS. Conventions ----------- \#\#\# RFC2119 The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119. - \#\#\# Prefixed vs Unprefixed A \[prefixed\]\(\#term-prefixed\) hexadecimal value begins with \`0x\`. \[Unprefixed\]\(\#term-unprefixed\) values have no prefix. Unless otherwise specified, all hexadecimal values \*\*should\*\* be represented with the \`0x\` prefix.

| Prefixed | `0xdeadbeef` |
| :--- | :--- |
| Unprefixed | `deadbeef` |

 Document Format --------------- The canonical format is a single JSON object. Packages \*\*must\*\* conform to the following serialization rules. - The document \*\*must\*\* be tightly packed, meaning no linebreaks or extra whitespace. - The keys in all objects must be sorted alphabetically. - Duplicate keys in the same object are invalid. - The document \*\*must\*\* use \[UTF-8\]\(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTF-8\) encoding. - The document \*\*must\*\* not have a trailing newline. Document Specification ---------------------- The following fields are defined for the package. Custom fields \*\*may\*\* be included. Custom fields \*\*should\*\* be prefixed with \`x-\` to prevent name collisions with future versions of the specification.

| See Also | Formalized \([JSON-Schema](https://json-schema.org)\) version of this specification: [package.spec.json](https://github.com/ethpm/ethpm-spec/tree/v2.0.0/spec/package.spec.json) |
| :--- | :--- |
| Jump To | [Definitions](eip-1123.md#definitions) |

#### EthPM Manifest Version: `manifest_version`

The `manifest_version` field defines the specification version that this document conforms to. Packages **must** include this field.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `manifest_version` |
| Type | String |
| Allowed Values | `2` |

 \#\#\# Package Name: \`package\_name\` The \`package\_name\` field defines a human readable name for this package. Packages \*\*must\*\* include this field. Package names \*\*must\*\* begin with a lowercase letter and be comprised of only lowercase letters, numeric characters, and the dash character \`-\`. Package names \*\*must\*\* not exceed 214 characters in length.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `package_name` |
| Type | String |
| Format | **must** match the regular expression `^[a-zA-Z][a-zA-Z0-9_]{0,255}$` |

 \#\#\# Package Meta: \`meta\` The \`meta\` field defines a location for metadata about the package which is not integral in nature for package installation, but may be important or convenient to have on-hand for other reasons. This field \*\*should\*\* be included in all Packages.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `meta` |
| Type | [Package Meta Object](eip-1123.md#package-meta-object) |

 \#\#\# Version: \`version\` The \`version\` field declares the version number of this release. This value \*\*must\*\* be included in all Packages. This value \*\*should\*\* conform to the \[semver\]\(https://semver.org/\) version numbering specification.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `version` |
| Type | String |

 \#\#\# Sources: \`sources\` The \`sources\` field defines a source tree that \*\*should\*\* comprise the full source tree necessary to recompile the contracts contained in this release. Sources are declared in a key/value mapping.

| Key | `sources` |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Object \(String: String\) |
| Format | See Below. |

 \#\#\#\# Format Keys \*\*must\*\* be relative filesystem paths beginning with a \`./\`. Paths \*\*must\*\* resolve to a path that is within the current working directory. Values \*\*must\*\* conform to \*one of\* the following formats. - Source string. - \[Content Addressable URI\]\(\#term-content-addressable-uri\). When the value is a source string the key should be interpreted as a file path. - If the resulting document is a directory the key should be interpreted as a directory path. - If the resulting document is a file the key should be interpreted as a file path. \#\#\# Contract Types: \`contract\_types\` The \`contract\_types\` field holds the \[Contract Types\]\(\#term-contract-type\) which have been included in this release. \[Packages\]\(\#term-package\) \*\*should\*\* only include contract types that can be found in the source files for this package. Packages \*\*should not\*\* include contract types from dependencies. Packages \*\*should not\*\* include abstract contracts in the contract types section of a release.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align:left">Key</th>
      <th style="text-align:left"><code>contract_types</code>
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">Type</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Object (String: <a href="eip-1123.md#contract-type-object">Contract Type Object</a>)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">Format</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>Keys <b>must</b> be valid <a href="eip-1123.md#term-contract-alias">Contract Aliases</a>.</p>
        <p>Values <b>must</b> conform to the <a href="eip-1123.md#contract-type-object">Contract Type Object</a> definition.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

 \#\#\# Deployments: \`deployments\` The \`deployments\` field holds the information for the chains on which this release has \[Contract Instances\]\(\#term-contract-instance\) as well as the \[Contract Types\]\(\#term-contract-type\) and other deployment details for those deployed contract instances. The set of chains defined by the \`\*BIP122 URI\*\` keys for this object \*\*must\*\* be unique.

| Key | `deployments` |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Object \(String: Object\(String: [Contract Instance Object](eip-1123.md#contract-instance-object)\)\) |
| Format | See Below. |

 \#\#\#\# Format Keys \*\*must\*\* be a valid BIP122 URI chain definition. Values \*\*must\*\* be objects which conform to the following format. - Keys \*\*must\*\* be valid \[Contract Instance Names\]\(\#term-contract-instance-name\). - Values \*\*must\*\* be a valid \[Contract Instance Object\]\(\#contract-instance-object\). \#\#\# Build Dependencies: \`build\_dependencies\` The \`build\_dependencies\` field defines a key/value mapping of Ethereum \[Packages\]\(\#term-package\) that this project depends on.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align:left">Required</th>
      <th style="text-align:left">No</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">Key</td>
      <td style="text-align:left"><code>build_dependencies</code>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">Type</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">Object (String: String)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">Format</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>Keys <b>must</b> be valid <a href="eip-1123.md#package-names">package names</a> matching
          the regular expression <code>[a-z][-a-z0-9]{0,213}</code>.</p>
        <p>Values <b>must</b> be valid IPFS URIs which resolve to a valid package.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

 Definitions ----------- Definitions for different objects used within the Package. All objects allow custom fields to be included. Custom fields \*\*should\*\* be prefixed with \`x-\` to prevent name collisions with future versions of the specification.

#### The _Link Reference_ Object

A [Link Reference](eip-1123.md#term-link-reference) object has the following key/value pairs. All link references are assumed to be associated with some corresponding [Bytecode](eip-1123.md#term-bytecode).

**Offsets: offsets**

The `offsets` field is an array of integers, corresponding to each of the start positions where the link reference appears in the bytecode. Locations are 0-indexed from the beginning of the bytes representation of the corresponding bytecode. This field is invalid if it references a position that is beyond the end of the bytecode.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Array |

**Length: length**

The `length` field is an integer which defines the length in bytes of the link reference. This field is invalid if the end of the defined link reference exceeds the end of the bytecode.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Integer |

**Name: name**

The `name` field is a string which **must** be a valid [Identifier](eip-1123.md#term-identifier). Any link references which **should** be linked with the same link value **should** be given the same name.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | String |
| Format | **must** conform to the [Identifier](eip-1123.md#term-identifier) format. |

 \#\#\# The \*Link Value\* Object Describes a single \[Link Value\]\(\#term-link-value\). A \*\*Link Value object\*\* is defined to have the following key/value pairs.

**Offsets: offsets**

The `offsets` field defines the locations within the corresponding bytecode where the `value` for this link value was written. These locations are 0-indexed from the beginning of the bytes representation of the corresponding bytecode.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Integer |
| Format | See Below. |

**Format**

Array of integers, where each integer **must** conform to all of the following.

* greater than or equal to zero
* strictly less than the length of the unprefixed hexadecimal representation of the corresponding bytecode.

**Type: type**

The `type` field defines the `value` type for determining what is encoded when [linking](eip-1123.md#term-linking) the corresponding bytecode.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align:left">Required</th>
      <th style="text-align:left">Yes</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">Type</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">String</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">Allowed Values</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p><code>&quot;literal&quot;</code> for bytecode literals</p>
        <p><code>&quot;reference&quot;</code> for named references to a particular
          <a
          href="eip-1123.md#term-contract-instance">Contract Instance</a>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Value: value**

The `value` field defines the value which should be written when [linking](eip-1123.md#term-linking) the corresponding bytecode.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | String |
| Format | Determined based on `type`, see below. |

**Format**

For static value _literals_ \(e.g. address\), value **must** be a _byte string_

To reference the address of a [Contract Instance](eip-1123.md#term-contract-instance) from the current package the value should be the name of that contract instance.

* This value **must** be a valid contract instance name.
* The chain definition under which the contract instance that this link value belongs to must contain this value within its keys.
* This value **may not** reference the same contract instance that this link value belongs to.

To reference a contract instance from a [Package](eip-1123.md#term-package) from somewhere within the dependency tree the value is constructed as follows.

* Let `[p1, p2, .. pn]` define a path down the dependency tree.
* Each of `p1, p2, pn` **must** be valid package names.
* `p1` **must** be present in keys of the `build_dependencies` for the current package.
* For every `pn` where `n > 1`, `pn` **must** be present in the keys of the `build_dependencies` of the package for `pn-1`.
* The value is represented by the string `<p1>:<p2>:<...>:<pn>:<contract-instance>` where all of `<p1>`, `<p2>`, `<pn>` are valid package names and `<contract-instance>` is a valid [Contract Name](eip-1123.md#term-contract-name).
* The `<contract-instance>` value **must** be a valid [Contract Instance Name](eip-1123.md#term-contract-instance-name).
* Within the package of the dependency defined by `<pn>`, all of the following must be satisfiable:
  * There **must** be _exactly_ one chain defined under the `deployments` key which matches the chain definition that this link value is nested under.
  * The `<contract-instance>` value **must** be present in the keys of the matching chain.

#### The _Bytecode_ Object

A bytecode object has the following key/value pairs.

**Bytecode: bytecode**

The `bytecode` field is a string containing the `0x` prefixed hexadecimal representation of the bytecode.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | String |
| Format | `0x` prefixed hexadecimal. |

**Link References: link\_references**

The `link_references` field defines the locations in the corresponding bytecode which require [linking](eip-1123.md#term-linking).

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Array |
| Format | All values **must** be valid [Link Reference objects](eip-1123.md#link-reference-object). See also below. |

**Format**

This field is considered invalid if _any_ of the [Link References](eip-1123.md#term-link-reference) are invalid when applied to the corresponding `bytecode` field, _or_ if any of the link references intersect.

Intersection is defined as two link references which overlap.

**Link Dependencies: link\_dependencies**

The `link_dependencies` defines the [Link Values](eip-1123.md#term-link-value) that have been used to link the corresponding bytecode.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Array |
| Format | All values **must** be valid [Link Value objects](eip-1123.md#link-value-object). See also below. |

**Format**

Validation of this field includes the following:

* Two link value objects **must not** contain any of the same values for `offsets`.
* Each [link value object](eip-1123.md#link-value-object) **must** have a corresponding [link reference object](eip-1123.md#link-reference-object) under the `link_references` field.
* The length of the resolved `value` **must** be equal to the `length` of the corresponding [Link Reference](eip-1123.md#term-link-reference).

 \#\#\# The \*Package Meta\* Object The \*Package Meta\* object is defined to have the following key/value pairs. \#\#\#\# Authors: \`authors\` The \`authors\` field defines a list of human readable names for the authors of this package. Packages \*\*may\*\* include this field.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `authors` |
| Type | Array \(String\) |

 \#\#\#\# License: \`license\` The \`license\` field declares the license under which this package is released. This value \*\*should\*\* conform to the \[SPDX\]\(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software\_Package\_Data\_Exchange\) format. Packages \*\*should\*\* include this field.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `license` |
| Type | String |

 \#\#\#\# Description: \`description\` The \`description\` field provides additional detail that may be relevant for the package. Packages \*\*may\*\* include this field.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `description` |
| Type | String |

 \#\#\#\# Keywords: \`keywords\` The \`keywords\` field provides relevant keywords related to this package.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `keywords` |
| Type | List of Strings |

 \#\#\#\# Links: \`links\` The \`links\` field provides URIs to relevant resources associated with this package. When possible, authors \*\*should\*\* use the following keys for the following common resources. - \`website\`: Primary website for the package. - \`documentation\`: Package Documentation - \`repository\`: Location of the project source code.

| Key | `links` |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Object \(String: String\) |

#### The _Contract Type_ Object

A _Contract Type_ object is defined to have the following key/value pairs.

**Contract Name: contract\_name**

The `contract_name` field defines the [Contract Name](eip-1123.md#term-contract-name) for this [Contract Type](eip-1123.md#term-contract-type).

| Required | If the [Contract Name](eip-1123.md#term-contract-name) and [Contract Alias](eip-1123.md#term-contract-alias) are not the same. |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | String |
| Format | **must** be a valid [Contract Name](eip-1123.md#term-contract-name). |

**Deployment Bytecode: deployment\_bytecode**

The `deployment_bytecode` field defines the bytecode for this [Contract Type](eip-1123.md#term-contract-type).

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Object |
| Format | **must** conform to [the Bytecode Object](eip-1123.md#the-bytecode-object) format. |

**Runtime Bytecode: runtime\_bytecode**

The `runtime_bytecode` field defines the unlinked `0x`-prefixed runtime portion of [Bytecode](eip-1123.md#term-bytecode) for this [Contract Type](eip-1123.md#term-contract-type).

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Object |
| Format | **must** conform to [the Bytecode Object](eip-1123.md#the-bytecode-object) format. |

**ABI: abi**

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | List |
| Format | **must** conform to the [Ethereum Contract ABI JSON format](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Ethereum-Contract-ABI#json). |

**Natspec: natspec**

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Object |
| Format | The union of the [UserDoc](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Ethereum-Natural-Specification-Format#user-documentation) and [DevDoc](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Ethereum-Natural-Specification-Format#developer-documentation) formats. |

**Compiler: compiler**

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Object |
| Format | **must** conform to [the Compiler Information object](eip-1123.md#the-compiler-information-object) format. |

 \#\#\# The \*Contract Instance\* Object A \*\*Contract Instance Object\*\* represents a single deployed \[Contract Instance\]\(\#term-contract-instance\) and is defined to have the following key/value pairs. \#\#\#\# Contract Type: \`contract\_type\` The \`contract\_type\` field defines the \[Contract Type\]\(\#term-contract-type\) for this \[Contract Instance\]\(\#term-contract-instance\). This can reference any of the contract types included in this \[Package\]\(\#term-package\) \*or\* any of the contract types found in any of the package dependencies from the \`build\_dependencies\` section of the \[Package Manifest\]\(\#term-package-manifest\).

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | String |
| Format | See Below. |

 \*\*Format\*\* Values for this field \*\*must\*\* conform to \*one of\* the two formats herein. To reference a contract type from this Package, use the format \`\`. - The \`\` value \*\*must\*\* be a valid \[Contract Alias\]\(\#term-contract-alias\). - The value \*\*must\*\* be present in the keys of the \`contract\_types\` section of this Package. To reference a contract type from a dependency, use the format \`:\`. - The \`\` value \*\*must\*\* be present in the keys of the \`build\_dependencies\` of this Package. - The \`\` value \*\*must\*\* be be a valid \[Contract Alias\]\(\#term-contract-alias\). - The resolved package for \`\` must contain the \`\` value in the keys of the \`contract\_types\` section.

**Address: address**

The `address` field defines the [Address](eip-1123.md#term-address) of the [Contract Instance](eip-1123.md#term-contract-instance).

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | String |
| Format | Hex encoded `0x` prefixed Ethereum address matching the regular expression `0x[0-9a-fA-F]{40}`. |

**Transaction: transaction**

The `transaction` field defines the transaction hash in which this [Contract Instance](eip-1123.md#term-contract-instance) was created.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | String |
| Format | `0x` prefixed hex encoded transaction hash. |

**Block: block**

The `block` field defines the block hash in which this the transaction which created this _contract instance_ was mined.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | String |
| Format | `0x` prefixed hex encoded block hash. |

 \#\#\#\# Runtime Bytecode: \`runtime\_bytecode\` The \`runtime\_bytecode\` field defines the runtime portion of bytecode for this \[Contract Instance\]\(\#term-contract-instance\). When present, the value from this field supersedes the \`runtime\_bytecode\` from the \[Contract Type\]\(\#term-contract-type\) for this \[Contract Instance\]\(\#term-contract-instance\).

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Object |
| Format | **must** conform to [the Bytecode Object](eip-1123.md#the-bytecode-object) format. |

 Every entry in the \`link\_references\` for this bytecode \*\*must\*\* have a corresponding entry in the \`link\_dependencies\` section.

**Compiler: compiler**

The `compiler` field defines the compiler information that was used during compilation of this [Contract Instance](eip-1123.md#term-contract-instance). This field **should** be present in all [Contract Types](eip-1123.md#term-contract-type) which include `bytecode` or `runtime_bytecode`.

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Type | Object |
| Format | **must** conform to the [Compiler Information Object](eip-1123.md#compiler-information-object) format. |

 \#\#\# The \*Compiler Information\* Object The \`compiler\` field defines the compiler information that was used during compilation of this \[Contract Instance\]\(\#term-contract-instance\). This field \*\*should\*\* be present in all contract instances that locally declare \`runtime\_bytecode\`. A \*Compiler Information\* object is defined to have the following key/value pairs. \#\#\#\# Name \`name\` The \`name\` field defines which compiler was used in compilation.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `name` |
| Type | String |

**Version: version**

The `version` field defines the version of the compiler. The field **should** be OS agnostic \(OS not included in the string\) and take the form of either the stable version in [semver](https://semver.org/) format or if built on a nightly should be denoted in the form of `<semver>-<commit-hash>` ex: `0.4.8-commit.60cc1668`.

| Required | Yes |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `version` |
| Type | String |

**Settings: settings**

The `settings` field defines any settings or configuration that was used in compilation. For the `"solc"` compiler, this **should** conform to the [Compiler Input and Output Description](https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/latest/using-the-compiler.html#compiler-input-and-output-json-description).

| Required | No |
| :--- | :--- |
| Key | `settings` |
| Type | Object |

#### BIP122 URIs

BIP122 URIs are used to define a blockchain via a subset of the [BIP-122](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0122.mediawiki) spec.

```text
blockchain://<genesis_hash>/block/<latest confirmed block hash>
```

The `<genesis hash>` represents the blockhash of the first block on the chain, and `<latest confirmed block hash>` represents the hash of the latest block that’s been reliably confirmed \(package managers should be free to choose their desired level of confirmations\).

## Rationale

The following use cases were considered during the creation of this specification.

| owned | A package which contains contracts which are not meant to be used by themselves but rather as base contracts to provide functionality to other contracts through inheritance. |
| :--- | :--- |
| transferable | A package which has a single dependency. |
| standard-token | A package which contains a reusable contract. |
| safe-math-lib | A package which contains deployed instance of one of the package contracts. |
| piper-coin | A package which contains a deployed instance of a reusable contract from a dependency. |
| escrow | A package which contains a deployed instance of a local contract which is linked against a deployed instance of a local library. |
| wallet | A package with a deployed instance of a local contract which is linked against a deployed instance of a library from a dependency. |
| wallet-with-send | A package with a deployed instance which links against a deep dependency. |

Each use case builds incrementally on the previous one.

A full listing of [Use Cases](https://ethpm.github.io/ethpm-spec/use-cases.html) can be found on the hosted version of this specification.

## Glossary

 ABI --- The JSON representation of the application binary interface. See the official \[specification\]\(https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/develop/abi-spec.html\) for more information.

### Address

A public identifier for an account on a particular chain

 Bytecode -------- The set of EVM instructions as produced by a compiler. Unless otherwise specified this should be assumed to be hexadecimal encoded, representing a whole number of bytes, and \[prefixed\]\(\#term-prefixed\) with \`0x\`. Bytecode can either be linked or unlinked. \(see \[Linking\]\(\#term-linking\)\)

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="text-align:left">Unlinked Bytecode</th>
      <th style="text-align:left">
        <p>The hexadecimal representation of a contract&#x2019;s EVM instructions
          that contains sections of code that requires <a href="eip-1123.md#term-linking">linking</a> for
          the contract to be functional.</p>
        <p>The sections of code which are unlinked <b>must</b> be filled in with zero
          bytes.</p>
        <p><b>Example</b>: <code>0x606060405260e06000730000000000000000000000000000000000000000634d536f</code>
        </p>
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align:left">Linked Bytecode</td>
      <td style="text-align:left">
        <p>The hexadecimal representation of a contract&#x2019;s EVM instructions
          which has had all <a href="eip-1123.md#term-link-reference">Link References</a> replaced
          with the desired <a href="eip-1123.md#term-link-value">Link Values</a>.</p>
        <p><b>Example</b>: <code>0x606060405260e06000736fe36000604051602001526040518160e060020a634d536f</code>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Chain Definition

This definition originates from [BIP122 URI](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0122.mediawiki).

A URI in the format `blockchain://<chain_id>/block/<block_hash>`

* `chain_id` is the unprefixed hexadecimal representation of the genesis hash for the chain.
* `block_hash` is the unprefixed hexadecimal representation of the hash of a block on the chain.

A chain is considered to match a chain definition if the the genesis block hash matches the `chain_id` and the block defined by `block_hash` can be found on that chain. It is possible for multiple chains to match a single URI, in which case all chains are considered valid matches

 Content Addressable URI ----------------------- Any URI which contains a cryptographic hash which can be used to verify the integrity of the content found at the URI. The URI format is defined in RFC3986 It is \*\*recommended\*\* that tools support IPFS and Swarm.

### Contract Alias

This is a name used to reference a specific [Contract Type](eip-1123.md#term-contract-type). Contract aliases **must** be unique within a single [Package](eip-1123.md#term-package).

The contract alias **must** use _one of_ the following naming schemes:

* `<contract-name>`
* `<contract-name>[<identifier>]`

The `<contract-name>` portion **must** be the same as the [Contract Name](eip-1123.md#term-contract-name) for this contract type.

The `[<identifier>]` portion **must** match the regular expression `\[[-a-zA-Z0-9]{1,256}]`.

 Contract Instance ----------------- A contract instance a specific deployed version of a \[Contract Type\]\(\#term-contract-type\). All contract instances have an \[Address\]\(\#term-address\) on some specific chain.

### Contract Instance Name

A name which refers to a specific [Contract Instance](eip-1123.md#term-contract-instance) on a specific chain from the deployments of a single [Package](eip-1123.md#term-package). This name **must** be unique across all other contract instances for the given chain. The name must conform to the regular expression `[a-zA-Z][a-zA-Z0-9_]{0,255}`

In cases where there is a single deployed instance of a given [Contract Type](eip-1123.md#term-contract-type), package managers **should** use the [Contract Alias](eip-1123.md#term-contract-alias) for that contract type for this name.

In cases where there are multiple deployed instances of a given contract type, package managers **should** use a name which provides some added semantic information as to help differentiate the two deployed instances in a meaningful way.

 Contract Name ------------- The name found in the source code that defines a specific \[Contract Type\]\(\#term-contract-type\). These names \*\*must\*\* conform to the regular expression \`\[a-zA-Z\]\[-a-zA-Z0-9\_\]{0,255}\`. There can be multiple contracts with the same contract name in a projects source files.

### Contract Type

Refers to a specific contract in the package source. This term can be used to refer to an abstract contract, a normal contract, or a library. Two contracts are of the same contract type if they have the same bytecode.

Example:

```text
contract Wallet {
    ...
}
```

A deployed instance of the `Wallet` contract would be of of type `Wallet`.

 Identifier ---------- Refers generally to a named entity in the \[Package\]\(\#term-package\). A string matching the regular expression \`\[a-zA-Z\]\[-\_a-zA-Z0-9\]{0,255}\`

### Link Reference

A location within a contract’s bytecode which needs to be linked. A link reference has the following properties.

| `offset` | Defines the location within the bytecode where the link reference begins. |
| :--- | :--- |
| `length` | Defines the length of the reference. |
| `name` | \(optional.\) A string to identify the reference |

 Link Value ---------- A link value is the value which can be inserted in place of a \[Link Reference\]\(\#term-link-reference\)

### Linking

The act of replacing [Link References](eip-1123.md#term-link-reference) with [Link Values](eip-1123.md#term-link-value) within some [Bytecode](eip-1123.md#term-bytecode).

 Package ------- Distribution of an application’s source or compiled bytecode along with metadata related to authorship, license, versioning, et al. For brevity, the term \*\*Package\*\* is often used metonymously to mean \[Package Manifest\]\(\#term-package-manifest\).

### Package Manifest

A machine-readable description of a package \(See [Specification](eip-1123.md#package-specification) for information about the format for package manifests.\)

 Prefixed -------- \[Bytecode\]\(\#term-bytecode\) string with leading \`0x\`.

| Example | `0xdeadbeef` |
| :--- | :--- |


### Unprefixed

Not [Prefixed](eip-1123.md#term-prefixed).

| Example | `deadbeef` |
| :--- | :--- |


## Backwards Compatibility

This specification supports backwards compatibility by use of the [manifest\_version](eip-1123.md#manifest-version) property. This specification corresponds to version `2` as the value for that field.

## Implementations

This submission aims to coincide with development efforts towards widespread implementation in commonly-used development tools.

The following tools are known to have begun or are nearing completion of a supporting implementation.

* [Truffle](http://trufflesuite.com/)
* [Populus](https://populus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
* [Embark](https://embark.status.im/)

Full support in implementation **may** require [Further Work](eip-1123.md#further-work), specified below.

## Further Work

This EIP addresses only the data format for package descriptions. Excluded from the scope of this specification are:

* Package registry interface definition
* Tooling integration, or how packages are stored on disk.

These efforts **should** be considered separate, warranting future dependent EIP submssions.

## Acknowledgements

The authors of this document would like to thank the original authors of [EIP-190](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-190), [ETHPrize](http://ethprize.io/) for their funding support, all community [contributors](https://github.com/ethpm/ethpm-spec/graphs/contributors), and the Ethereum community at large.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

